Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Brown: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TODAY RATCHETED
UP ITS CAMPAIGN, PRESSING U.S.
LAWMAKERS TO BACK A MISSILE
STRIKE AGAINST SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE NEWSHOUR THIS LABOR DAY,
WE ASSESS THE MILITARY OPTIONS
AS U.S. SHIPS MOVE INTO THE RED
SEA.
PLUS, MARGARET WARNER-- ON THE
GROUND IN CAIRO-- GETS REACTION
FROM THE ARAB WORLD.
THAT THE UNITED STATES COULD
ACT EFFECTIVELY, AND WAS DOING
IT REALLY WITH THE REGION'S
INTERESTS AT HEARTS.
>> Brown: THEN, RAY SUAREZ
EXAMINES HOW THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT INFLUENCED DRIVES FOR
EQUAL RIGHTS FOR WOMEN AND GAY
AMERICANS.
AND IT TOOK 53 HOURS IN THE
WATER AND 35 YEARS OF TRYING.
DIANA NYAD BECAME THE FIRST
PERSON TO SWIM FROM CUBA TO
FLORIDA WITHOUT A CAGE.
>> WE SHOULD NEVER, EVER GIVE
UP.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA WORKED
THROUGH THIS LABOR DAY MONDAY,
SEEKING SUPPORT FOR MILITARY
STRIKES AGAINST SYRIA.
HE CALLED IN A PAIR OF HIS
TOUGHEST SENATE CRITICS, HOPING
THEY'LL ROUND UP VOTES FOR A
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE USE
OF FORCE.
>> VOTE AGAINST THAT RESOLUTION
BY CONGRESS I THINK WOULD BE
CATASTROPHIC BECAUSE IT WOULD
UNDERMINE THE CREDIBILITY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
NONE OF US WANT THAT.
>> FROM TWO HAWKISH REPUBLICAN
SENATORS, JOHN McCAIN AND
LINDSAY GRAHAM, THE PRESIDENT
GOT BACKING FOR MILITARY ACTION
BUT COMPLAINTS THAT HE IS DOING
TOO LITTLE, TOO LATE IN SYRIA.
>> FOR TWO YEARS THE PRESIDENT
HAS ALLOWED THIS TO BECOME QUITE
FRANKLY A DEBACLE AND WHEN IT
COMES TO SELLING THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE WHAT WE SHOULD DO IN
SYRIA GIVEN THE INDIFFERENTIAL
AND QUITE FRABLG CONTRADICTIONS
IT IS GOING TO BE A TOUGH PULL
BUT IT IS NOT TOO LATE.
SO MR. PRESIDENT, CLEAR THE AIR.
BE DECISIVE BE FIRM AS WHY WHAT
IT MEANS TO US AS A NATION TO
GET IT RIGHT.
>> I THINK WE WORK VERY HARD,
AMERICANS ARE SKEPTICAL.
>> TOP AMERICANS OF THE SECURITY
TEAM LOBBIED FOR VOTES TODAY IN
A CONFERENCE CALL WITH HOUSE
DEMOCRATS.
IT WAS ALL SET IN MOTION
SATURDAY WITH THE PRESIDENT
ANNOUNCI HE'NGS DECIDED THE U.S.
SHOULD ATTACK SYRIA AS
PUNISHMENT FOR ATTACKS BUT HE
LAST SAID:
>> I'VE LONG BELIEVED THAT OUR
POWER IS NOT JUST ROOTED IN OUR
MILITARY MIGHT BUT AS AN EXAMPLE
OF A GOVERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE BY
THE PEOPLE AND FOR THE PEOPLE
AND THAT'S WHY I'VE MADE A
SECOND DECISION.
I WILL SEEK THORGZ FOR THE USE
OF FORCE FOR THE AMERICAN'S
PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES IN
CONGRESS.
>> JOHN KERRY HIT THE SUNDAY
TALK SHOWS, ADDED TO THE
EVIDENCE HE LAID OUT FRIDAY.
>> WE HAVE LEARNED THROUGH
SAMPLES THAT WERE PROVIDED TO
THE UNITED STATES, THAT HAVE NOW
BEEN TESTED, FROM FIRST
RESPONDERS, IN EAST DAMASCUS,
AND LAYER SAMPLES AND BLOOD
SAMPLES HAVE TESTED POSITIVE FOR
SIGNATURES OF SERIN.
SO THIS CASE IS BUILDING AND
THIS CASE WILL BUILD.
>> THAT WAS FOLLOWED BY A HIGH
LEVEL SUNDAY BRIEFING FOR
LAWMAKERS BUT SOME IN BOTH
PARTIES SOUNDED UNCONVINCED.
>> I FEEL TERRIBLE ABOUT THE
CHEMIC WEAALPONS THAT HAVE BEEN
USED.
HOWEVER WE KNOW THAT CHEMICAL
WEANS HPOAVE BEEN USED IN OTHER
INSTANCES AND WE DID NOT TAKE
MILITARY ACTION.
>> IN MY MIND IT'S FAR FROM
SETTLED.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT SHOULD
BE UNDERTAKEN LIGHT.
CERTAINLY, THE MOOD, OF THE
DISTRICT I REPRESENT IS DO NOT
DO THIS.
AND I HONESTLY DIDN'T HEAR
ANYTHING THAT TOLD ME I OUGHT TO
HAVE A DIFFERENT POSITION.
>>Brown: OTHERS SAID THEY ARE
WORRIED THAT THE ADMINISTRATION
MIGHT BE ASKING FOR A BLANK
CHECK.
>> THE DRAFT RESOLUTION IS VERY,
VERY BROAD.
I THINK ONE OF THE CONCERNS IN
THE PAST HAS BEEN WHETHER THESE
TYPES OF RESOLUTIONS WERE TOO
BROAD.
>>Brown: THE WHITE HOUSE SENT UP
THAT DRAFT RESOLUTION ON SUN.
IT WOULD AUTHORIZE THE PRESIDENT
TO USE NECESSARY AND APPROPRIATE
MILITARY FORCE AGAINST SYRIA IN
ORDER TO DETER DISRUPT PREVENT
AND DEGRADE THE DAMASCUS
REGIME'S ABILITY TO USE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AGAIN.
SENATORS McCAIN AND GRAHAM
SAID TODAY THEY HEARD THE
MAKINGS OF A PLAN FROM THE WHITE
HOUSE.
>> WE STILL HAVE SIGNIFICANT
CONCERNS.
BUT WE BELIEVE THAT THERE'S IN
FORMULATION A STRATEGY TO
UPGRADE THE CAPABILITIES OF
FREE SYRIAN ARMY AND TO DEGRADE
THE CAPABILITIES OF BASHAR
AL-ASSAD.
>> WITH THE DEBATE BEGINNING IN
EARNEST, FOUR SHIPS DEPLOYING IN
THE RED SEA.
MEANWHILE SYRIAN PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL-ASSAD WARNED THAT MORE
FURTHER AGGRESSION WOULD RISK A
FURTHER ALL OUT WAR.
PREVENTING ANY AGGRESSION
AGAINST IT.
ASSAD DREW SUPPORT FROM MOSCOW
WHERE THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SAID THE U.S. EVIDENCE
OF CHEMICAL ATTACK IS, QUOTE,
ABSOLUTELY UNCONVINCING.
BACK IN WASHINGTON PRESIDENT
OBAMA WILL TRY TO DISPEL SUCH
DOUBTS WHEN HE SENDS SECRETARY
KERRY AND DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAIG
>> Brown: AMID THE FOCUS ON
POSSIBLE U.S. MILITARY ACTION,
THERE WAS WORD TODAY THAT THE
SYRIAN REFUGEE PROBLEM HAS
BECOME EVEN MORE DESPERATE.
THE UNITED NATIONS REPORTED SOME
SEVEN MILLION SYRIANS HAVE FLED
TO OTHER COUNTRIES, OR BEEN
DISPLACED WITHIN THEIR OWN
BORDERS.
MANY ARE NOW APPEALING FOR
OUTSIDE MILITARY ACTION.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM MARTIN
GEISSLER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
>> JORDAN'S BIGGEST REFUGEE CAMP
GETS BUSIER BY THE DAY.
THE STREETS HERE LINED WITH
PEOPLE WHO HAVE LOST EVERYTHING.
FORCED TO FLEE THEIR HOMES AND
THEIR COUNTRY IN A BLOODY CIVIL
WAR.
THEY SAW FOREIGN INTERVENTION AS
THEIR ONLY HOPE.
NOW THEY'LL TELL YOU THE WHOLE
WORLD HAS LET THEM DOWN.
>> IF NO ONE STOPS ASSAD HE'LL
KILL 5 MILLION SAYS AKMED.
HE CAN'T UNDERSTAND WHY THE U.S.
IS BACKING AWAY.
ASSAD HAS USED CHEMICALS 14
TIMES AT LEAST.
WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH THE
WORLD?
ARE THEY DRUNK, ARE THEY ON
DRUGS?
>> ALMOST 150,000 SYRIAN
REFUGEES NOW LIVE IN ZATARIE
CAMP.
NONE OF THEM WANT TO BE HERE BUT
THERE'S A DEPRESSING SENSE OF
PERMANENCE ABOUT THE CAMP.
WHAT'S STRIKING ABOUT THIS
SWARMING SWELLING MASS OF PEOPLE
IS THE FACT THAT ACROSS THE
BORDER IN SYRIA ALMOST THE SAME
NUMBER OF LIVES HAVE BEEN LOST
IN A CONFLICT ALMOST TWO YEARS
OLD.
THESE PEOPLE SAY THE REGIME THEY
HATE WILL BE EMBOLDENED.
IF OBAMA DOESN'T STRIKE ASSAD
HE'LL LOOK WEAK, SAYS THIS MAN.
HE'LL THINK IT IS OKAY TO USE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
DON'T SEND US MISSILES, SEND US
GUNS.
WE'LL GO FIGHT ASSAD.
THE WORLD IS PLAYING A GAME WITH
SYRIAN BLOOD.
THEY ALL KNOW MORE OF THAT WILL
BE SPILT BEFORE ANY OF THEM CAN
GO HOME.
>> Brown: SO WHERE DO THINGS
STAND NOW?
FOR THAT WE TURN TO RETIRED ARMY
GENERAL JACK KEANE, VICE CHIEF
OF STAFF OF THE ARMY FROM 1999
TO 2003.
HE WAS AN INFLUENTIAL ADVOCATE
FOR THE SURGE OF TROOPS IN IRAQ.
HE NOW HAS HIS OWN CONSULTING
COMPANY.
DOV ZAKHEIM WAS THE DEFENSE
DEPARTMENT'S COMPTROLLER DURING
THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW A SENIOR ADVISOR AT THE
CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
AND P.J. CROWLEY WAS ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR PUBLIC
AFFAIRS DURING THE FIRST TERM OF
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S ALSO A RETIRED AIR FORCE
COLONEL
>> WELCOME TO ALL OF YOU.
GENERAL KEENE I WANT TO ASK YOU,
BECAUSE I UNDERSTAND YOU TALKED
TO SENATORS McCAIN AND GRAHAM
AFTER THEIR MEETING WITH THE
PRESIDENT.
DID THEY HAVE A SENSE OF SOME
KIND OF PLAN ON THE TABLE FOR
WHAT COULD BE DONE MILITARILY?
>> YES I THINK THEY CAME AWAY
FROM THAT MEETING A LITTLE MORE
OPTIMISTIC THAN THEY THOUGHT
THEY WOULD BE.
I BELIEVE THEY'RE ENCOURAGED BY
THE FACT THAT I THINK THE PLAN
IS A LITTLE BIT MORE ROBUST AND
THAT DEGRADES SIGNIFICANTLY
ASSAD'S DELIVERY SYSTEMS TO
INCLUDE AIR POWER.
>>Brown: WHAT DOES THAT MEAN TO
DEGRADE SIGNIFICANTLY?
>> WELL THE DELIVERY SYSTEM
WOULD BE ROCKETS, ARTILLERY AND
ALSO HIS AIR POWER.
THOSE ARE THE ASSISTANCE HE USES
TO DELIVER CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
AND THE COMMAND AND CONTROL
ASSOCIATED TO IT.
THERE'S A PART 2 THAT THEY'RE
ENCOURAGED BY ALSO AND THAT IS
THE COMMITMENT TO UPGRADE MORE
THAN WHAT WE ARE CURRENTLY
DOING, THE OPPOSITION FORCES
WOULD TRAIN ASSISTANTS WITH
MONEY AND WITH ARMS.
IT WAS UNDER --
>>Brown: ARMS?
HE'S ALREADY MADE A DECISION
TO DO ARMS BUT NO ARM OF ANY
KIND HAS ARRIVED YET.
>>Brown: RIGHT.
AND WHILE IF NOT IN OPEN
SOURCES, THE FACT OF THE MATTER
IS THOSE ARE LARGELY SMALL ARMS.
IT'S UNCLEAR AS A RESULT OF THIS
MEETING TODAY IF THE ARMS ARE
GOING TO BE THE KIND OF WEAPON
SYSTEMS THE OPPOSITION FORCES
WANT WHICH IS ANY AIR --
ANTIAIRCRAFT AND ANTITANK
SYSTEM.
>>Brown: YOU'VE WRITTEN AGAINST
MILITARY ACTION, WHY?
>> WELL WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO
STRIKE WITH TOMAHAWKS?
WE DID IN 1998.
DIDN'T STOP THE TALIBAN FROM
SUPPORTING AL QAEDA NINE YEARS
LATER, IT WAS A DISASTER.
SUDAN DIDN'T MAKE MUCH
DIFFERENCE THERE.
IF IT'S GOING TO BE ANYTHING
LIKE GENERAL KEENE IS TALKING
ABOUT THAT'S NOT A ONE DAY SHOT.
THAT'S GOING TO BE MULTIPLE
ATTACKS.
WE'RE GOING OHAVE TO SEE HOW
MUCH DAMAGE WE HAVE ACTUALLY
DONE, BATTLE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT.
OUR RECORD IS SPOTTY ON THAT.
WILL WE GET EVERYTHING WE'RE
TARGETING?
MAYBE NOT.
A LOT OF THE AIRCRAFT, IN FACT
THE AIRCRAFT THAT SEEM TO BE
MORE EFFECTIVE, L-29 TRAINERS,
DUMPY LITTLE THINGS BUT THEY
DON'T HAVE TO FLY OFF AIR
FIELDS.
BUT WHAT IF WE HIT THE RUSSIANS,
THEN WHAT HAPPENS?
>>Brown: P.J. CROWLEY, WILL A
LIMITED STRIKE BE EFFECTIVE?
IN SURE.
THE IMMEDIATE STRIKE QUESTION UP
INTO STRATEGY.
OUR STRATEGY IS CONTAINMENT.
AS JOHN KERRY REITERATED ON
FRIDAY, WE WILL DO WHAT WE CAN
TO HELP THE OPPOSITION, BUT
WE'RE GOING TO CONTAIN THE CIVIL
WAR AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE, INSIDE
THE BORDERS OF SYRIA, OBVIOUSLY
AS THE PREVIOUS REPORT NOTED WE
NEED TO DO MUCH MORE TO HELP THE
HUMANITARIAN SIDE, WITH THE
REFUGEE FLOWS INTO LEBANON
JORDAN AND TURKEY.
BUT MUCH LIKE WE DID IN BOSNIA
ULTIMATELY WE HAVE TO WAIT FOR
AN OPPORTUNITY WHERE THE
FIGHTING JUST WORKS ITS WAY
THROUGH, AND THEN SEE IF WE
CAN'T SOLVE THIS MILL TAILOR.
BUT I THINK -- MILITARILY.
IN THE MEANTIME THE PRESIDENT
HAS DRAWN AN APPROPRIATE RED
LINE.
IN SEEKING TO CONTAIN WE NEED TO
BE SURE THAT THESE WEAPONS THAT
CAN KILL FAR MORE THAN ANY OTHER
WEAPON IN THE BATTLE FIELD TODAY
THAT THAT IS NOT A WEAPON THAT
ASSAD HAS AT HIS DISPOSAL.
BUT THE DOV'S POINT AT LEAST
WHAT IS TO COME OUT OF THIS
CONGRESSIONAL DEBATE IS A
STRATEGY AND AA POLICY THAT
GIVES THE PRESIDENT AUTHORITY TO
DO IT MORE THAN ONCE BUT
PREPARING FOR THAT --
>>Brown: YOU'RE SUGGESTING GOING
FURTHER AS FAR AS DEGRADING HIS
REGIME?
>> I THINK THE ISSUE IS HOW FAR
ARE YOU GOING TO GO WITH A
LIMITED ATTACK OPTION?
ONE OF THE THINGS I'VE BEEN
ADVOCATING IS, CRUISE MISSILES
DROPPED OUT OF AIRPLANES THAT
FLY LONG DISTANCES TO TARGETS,
THEY WORK BEST AGAINST FIXED
TARGETS AS OPPOSED TO THINGS HAD
A CAN MOVE AROUND THE BATTLE
FIELD.
HIS AIR POWER IS VERY VULNERABLE
TO THIS BECAUSE YOU CAN TAKE HIS
INFRASTRUCTURE AWAY, THAT IS,
HIS AIR FIELDS, THE LOGISTICS
FRACTURE COMMAND AND CONTROL
ET CETERA, PLUS HIS AIRCRAFT IS
VULNERABLE TO THAT.
ASSAD IN USING THESE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS NEVER THOUGHT IN MY VIEW
THAT HE WOULD LOSE HIS AIR POWER
OVER THE USE OF THESE WEAPONS.
SO WE STILL HAVE A HUGE
OPPORTUNITY ODEGRADE HIM NOT AS
SIGNIFICANTLY HERE AND TO TAKE
DOWN SOME OTHER DELIVERY MEANS
AS WELL.
>>Brown: WHAT DO YOU SEE CAN IS
IT -- SOUNDS ALMOST --
>> I.T. SOUNDS VERY, VERY EASY
BUT TOOK US QUITE A WILE IN
LIBYA, IN FACT EVEN IN BOSNIA
TOOK 78 DAYS.
KOSOVO.
>> KOSOVO WHERE WE WERE BOMBING
AWAY.
WHAT HAPPENS FOR EXAMPLE IF THE
HELICOPTERS ARE MOVED AND HE'S
DOING A LOT OF KILLING WITH
HOPTS THESE TRAINERS ARE MOVED
AND HE KEEPS MOVING THEM, WHAT
HAPPENS THEN?
WHAT HAPPENS IF WE FACE MUCH
MORE SOPHISTICATED AIR DEFENSES
BECAUSE THE RUSSIANS HAVE GIVEN
S-300 AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS WHICH
THE IF THE SYRIAN SYRIANS ARE IN
EX E.XTREMIS, WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE LIMITS ARE, WE HAVE NEVER
KNOWN WHAT THE LIMITS ARE AND
ONCE WE CROSS THE LIMITS WE GET
SUCKED IN BIG TIME.
>>Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK P.J.
CROWLEY, WAS THERE AN UPSIDE OF
THE PRESIDENT GOING TO CONGRESS
FOR GETTING CONGRESSIONAL
SUPPORT FOR ANYTHING LIKE THIS
THAT MIGHT HAM?
>> THERE ARE SOME ANOMALIES
HERE.
TWO YEARS AGO THE PRESIDENT WAS
INVOLVED IN THE SIX-MONTHON IN .
THE ADMINISTRATION HAD A U.N.
COUNSEL RESOLUTION BUT HE DID
NOT -- SECURITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION.
HE CALLED IT FOR LEGAL PURPOSES
NOT HOSTILITIES.
IN THIS CASE HE'S OSTENSIBLY
GOING TO CONGRESS FOR SUPPORT
FOR A SHOT ACROSS THE BOW AS HE
HAS CALLED IT.
BUT AS JACK SAID, THE KEY IS,
WHAT THE PRESIDENT'S SAYING IS
I'M GOING TO DO WHATEVER I HAVE
TO DO TO TAKE CHEMICAL WEAPONS
OFF THE TABLE.
BUT AGAIN I'M NOT GOING OUSE
MILITARY -- TO USE MILITARY
ACTION TO IMPOSE SOLUTION ON THE
CIVIL WAR.
THAT'S AN UNCOMFORTABLE
SITUATION FOR US TO BE IN BUT
HE'S CREATING THE BOUNDARIES
THAT HE NEEDS TO HAVE AS MUCH
FLEXIBILITY WITHIN THOSE
BOUNDARIES TO BE ABLE TO DO WHAT
HE NEEDS TO DO.
AND THEN MILITARILY.
AND THEN THE HOME RUN HERE IS
THEN TO TRY TO USE THE LIMITED
A MILITARY FORCE TO
TRY TO UNLOCK THE GENEVA PROCESS
AND GET THIS BACK ON A MILITARY
TRACK.
I THINK WE'LL HAVE TO FACE THE
FACT THAT THIS COULD TAKE YEARS
TO RESOLVE AS IT DID IN BOSNIA.
>>Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE
POTENTIAL GENERAL KEENE FOR THE
POTENTIAL FOR MORE REGIONAL
IMPACT, BLOW BACK IN MANY WAYS?
>> IF YOU DIDN'T MAINTAIN THE
STATUS QUO, THAT REGIONAL SPILL
OVERNIGHT HAS BEGUN.
AND -- SPILLOVER HAS BEGUN.
THAT REGIONALITY, IN TERMS OF
BLOW-BACK AND I THINK NOTHING
BUT HUBRIS FROM THE RUSSIANS,
THEY DON'T HAVE MUCH MILITARY
CAPABILITY TO BE FRANK ABOUT IT.
SYRIA IS NOT GOING TO ATTACK
ISRAEL, THEY LOST EVERY WAR THEY
FOUGHT WITH THEM.
THAT WOULD BE A HUGE MISTAKE,
THE IRANIANS ARE NOT GOING TO
CONDUCT AN ATTACK, A
CONVENTIONAL ATTACK OPEN ISRAEL
AND INVITE ISRAEL TO TAKE DOWN
NUCLEAR SYSTEMS.
I THINK HAS BEEN IN THEIR KIT
BAG FOR A LONG TIME.
HEZBOLLAH HAS BEEN FIRING
ROCKETS ON ISRAEL, SOMETHING
THAT COULD HAPPEN.
SOMETHING THAT ENLARGES THE WAR
I DON'T THINK SO.
>>Brown: 30 SECOND RESPONSE TO
THAT IF YOU WOULD.
>> I THINK IF ASSAD FALLS THE
QUESTION IS WHO TAKES OVER?
AND IF THE ISLAMISTS TAKE OVER
THE MOST LIKELY GROUP IS EL
NUSRA, THEY'RE NOT THE BIGGEST
BUT THE BEST ORGANIZED.
IT WASN'T IN THE RUSSIAN
REVOLUTION THE BIGGEST THAT WON,
IT WAS THE BOLSHEVIKS.
>>Brown: I'LL GIVE YOU A LAST
WORD.
>> FOR THE ADMINISTRATION
ULTIMATELY SYRIA AS HORRIBLE AS
IT IS IS REALLY OF SECONDARY
IMPORTANCE COMPARED TO TRYING TO
RESOLVE THE SITUATION OF IRAN.
>>Brown: ALL RIGHT, P.J.
CROWLEY, DOV ZACKHEIM, GENERAL
CK KJAEENE THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, MARGARET WARNER IN
EGYPT ON REACTION TO THE SYRIA
CRISIS; HOW THE CIVIL RIGHTS
OVEMMENT SPURRED OTHER FIGHTS
FOR FREEDOM; AND DIANA NYAD'S
HISTORIC SWIM.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: AMERICAN DIANA NYAD
TODAY BECAME THE FIRST PERSON TO
SWIM FROM CUBA TO FLORIDA
WITHOUT A SHARK CAGE.
THE 64-YEAR-OLD ARRIVED IN KEY
WEST 53 HOURS AFTER SHE JUMPED
INTO THE WATER IN HAVANA ON
SATURDAY.
SHE SWAM 110 MILES ACROSS THE
FLORIDA STRAIT WITH A SUPPORT
TEAM KEEPING HER ON COURSE.
NYAD WAS SUNBURNED AND A BIT
DAZED AS FANS WELCOMED HER ON
THE BEACH.
REE MESSAGES.
ONE IS:  WE SHOULD NEVER, EVER,
GIVE UP.
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
>> YOU WIN, YOU NEVER ARE TOO
OLD TO CHASE YOUR DREAMS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
IT LOOKS LIKE A SOLITARY
SPORT.
>> Holman: THIS WAS NYAD'S FIFTH
ATTEMPT TO SWIM THE STRAIT.
THE OTHERS RAN INTO BOAT
TROUBLE, STORMS, AND JELLYFISH
STINGS.
THE TOP NUCLEAR REGULATOR IN
JAPAN RAISED CONCERNS TODAY OVER
NEW LEAKS AT THE DAMAGED
FUKUSHIMA POWER PLANT.
THE LATEST LEAK WAS FOUND OVER
THE WEEKEND IN A CONNECTING
PIPE.
THERE MAY ALSO BE LEAKS FROM
THREE STORAGE TANKS WHERE
ELEVATED RADIOACTIVITY WAS
DETECTED.
IN ADDITION, OFFICIALS FEAR
LEAKS ALSO MAY BE COMING FROM AS
MANY AS 300 OTHER TANKS.
BUT JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER
SHINZO ABE SAID AGAIN HIS
GOVERNMENT WILL NOT JUST STAND
BY.
>> REGARDING THE CONSIDERING
PROBLEM OF CONTAMINATED WATER AT
THE FUKUSHIMA DIICHI PLANT, THE
GOVERNMENT WILL COME FORWARD TO
IMPLEMENT NECESSARY MEASURES TO
DEAL WITH THE ISSUE.
UNLIKE PASTIMES, WE MUST TAKE
SUPPLEMENTAL MEASURES.
>> Holman: THE FUKUSHIMA PLANT
HAS BEEN CRIPPLED SINCE THE
MARCH 2011 EARTHQUAKE AND
TSUNAMI LED TO THE MELTDOWN OF
THREE REACTOR CORES.
FIRE CREWS IN CALIFORNIA
ANNOUNCED BIG GAINS TODAY IN
CONTROLLING A HUGE WILDFIRE
THAT'S BURNING PARTIALLY IN
YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK.
AS OF THIS MORNING, THE FIRE WAS
60% CONTAINED, UP FROM 45% LAST
NIGHT.
BUT IT ALSO GREW BY ABOUT NINE
SQUARE MILES OVERNIGHT AND NOW
COVERS MORE THAN 357 SQUARE
MILES.
FIREFIGHTERS ESTIMATE IT WILL
TAKE ABOUT 20 MORE DAYS TO
CONTAIN THE BLAZE FULLY.
IN SOUTH AFRICA, FOERRM
PRESIDENT NELSON MANDELA SPENT
HIS FIRST FULL DAY AT HOME IN
NEARLY THREE MONTHS.
AN AMBULANCE RETURNED HIM TO HIS
JOHANNESBURG RESIDENCE SUNDAY,
AFTER DOCTORS DISCHARGED HIM.
THE GOVERNMENT SAID HE REMAINS
IN CRITICAL AND SOMETIMES
UNSTABLE CONDITION.
HE'LL CONTINUE RECEIVING
TREATMENT AT HOME.
THE 95-YEAR-OLD MANDELA WAS
ADMITTED TO THE HOSPITAL IN
EARLY JUNE FOR A RECURRING LUNG
INFECTION.
VERIZON HAS ANNOUNCED A $130
BILLION DEAL TO MAKE IT SOLE
OWNER OF ITS WIRELESS BUSINESS.
THE COMPANY SAID TODAY THAT
BRITISH CARRIER VODAFONE HAS
AGREED TO SELL ITS 45% STAKE IN
VERIZON WIRELESS.
IT'S THE SECOND LARGEST
ACQUISITION DEAL ON RECORD.
IF IT WINS APPROVAL, THE DEAL IS
NOT EXPECTED TO HAVE MUCH OF AN
EFFECT ON VERIZON CUSTOMERS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: AND WE RETURN TO THE
MIDDLE EAST AND REACTION TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S DECISION TO
SEEK A CONGRESSIONAL VOTE BEFORE
LAUNCHING A MILITARY STRIKE
AGAINST SYRIA.
OUR OWN MARGARET WARNER IS IN
CAIRO, EGYPT.
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT WHILE
AGO.
>> MARGARET WELCOME TELL US
ABOUT THE REACTION YOU'VE BEEN
GETTING FROM PEOPLE SO FAR ABOUT
A POSSIBLE U.S. STRIKE AGAINST
SYRIA.
>> 87 I'VE ONLY BEEN HERE --
JEFF I'VE ONLY BEEN HERE 24
HOURS AND I'M SURPRISED AT THE
UNANIMITY ABOUT THE STRIKE ON
SYRIA.
DESPITE THE FACT THAT SOME
PEOPLE HERE BELIEVE ASSAD
PROBABLY DID USE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
PEOPLE HERE SAY IT WILL JUST INE
REGION.
THEY MENTION MORE REFUGEES TO
STRENGTHENING JIHADI FORCES
INSIDE THE REBEL FORCES IN
SYRIA.
AND AT THE ROOT OF IT THERE'S
REALLY GREAT DISTRUST OF THE
UNITED STATES, BOTH ITS PAST
ACTION HE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND
ITS MOTIVES FOR EVEN CONSIDERING
THIS.
>>Brown: SO YOU'RE SAYING THEY
MIGHT WELL BELIEVE THAT THE
ASSAD REGIME USED CHEMICAL
WEAPONS BUT IT'S ABOUT THE
FEELINGS FIRST AND FOREMOST
ABOUT THE U.S?
>>Warner:: IT REALLY DOES JEFF.
THEY SAID YOU GOT IT WRONG ABOUT
IRAQ, THERE WERE WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION BEING MADE AND THERE
WERE NOT.
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE HERE WHO
EVEN DOUBT THE INTELLIGENCE THAT
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
PRESENTED WITH SUCH KIND OF
AUTHORITY AND CONFIDENCE THIS
TIME.
SO I SAY THAT'S A LARGER GROUP.
BUT I SPOKE TO A YOUNG MAN, LAST
NIGHT, WHO ACTUALLY BELIEVES
BASHAR ASSAD DID IT.
NOBODY I HAVE SPOKEN TO, THERE
ISN'T ANYBODY, TRUSTS THE UNITED
STATES AND WANTS THE UNITED
STATES TO INTERVENE ONCE AGAIN
IN ANOTHER ARAB COUNTRY.
THEY ALL POINT TO THE EXAMPLE OF
IRAQ IN A SECOND WAY WHICH IS
THE UNITED STATES WENT IN TO RID
IRAQ OF A DICK TAIRLT AND
LOOK -- DICTATOR AND LOOK WHAT
WE GOT.
LOOK AT THIS REGION, IRAQ IN
DISARRAY, SECTARIAN VIOLENCE
WITHIN IRAQ AND NOW AS WE KNOW
EXPORTING JIHADI INFLUENCES, AND
EXTREMISTS IF WITH THEIR OWN
JIHADI INFLUENCE IN THE SINAI.
WHETHER FOR PRACTICAL REASONS OR
THE LEVEL OF TRUST IN THE UNITED
STATES'S MOTIVES, I DIDN'T HEAR
ANYONE WHO HAD CONFIDENCE THAT
THE UNITED STATES COULD ACT
EFFECTIVIVELY AND DOING IT WITH
THE REGION'S BEST INTERESTS AT
HEART.
>>Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH OVER THE
WEEKEND, WHILE HE WANTS TO DO
IT, HE WILL WAIT FOR CONGRESS,
WHAT REACTION DID YOU GET TO
THAT?
>>Warner:: TO THE AVERAGE MAN
TON STREET THAT HAD BARELY
PENETRATED, PARLIAMENTARIANS,
PEOPLE OF THAT TYPE I HAD SPOKE
TO, THEY WERE SPLIT.
THAT REALLY CONVEYS A SORT OF
WEAKNESS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA MAY SAY IT'S
BECAUSE OF THE AMERICAN
DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM AND THE
REASONS HE GAVE.
BUT HERE IN SOME QUARTERS IT WAS
SEEN AS A SIGN OF WEAKNESS BUT
ANOTHER PERSON AN ACTIVIST, A
PROARE DEMOCRACY ACTIVIST, WHEN
YOU HAVE POWER SHOW POWER NOT
WEAKNESS.
THERE IS A LITTLE BIT OF A SPLIT
ON THAT BUT REALLY, THAT'S NOT
THE IMPORTANT PRIX THROUGH WHICH
PEOPLE ARE -- PRISM THROUGH
WHICH PEOPLE ARE LOOKING AT IT.
>>Brown: PARTICULARLY THROUGH
THE ARAB LEAGUE WHERE DO THINGS
STAND FOR THAT?
>> NOT ENCOURAGINGLY FOR THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, AS YOU
SAID THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
HOPED AS JUST WITH THE ACTION IN
LIBYA THEY WOULD BE ACTING IN
CONCERT NOT ONLY WITH EUROPEAN
PARTNERS BUT WITH THE ARAB
LEAGUE.
THE ARAB LEAGUE YOU KNOW LAST
WEEK I THINK IT WAS MET, AND
SAID, ESSENTIALLY, HELD ASSAD,
SAID ASSAD SHOULD BE HELD TO
ACCOUNT, WAS CRITICAL OF ASSAD
STOPPED SHORT OF MILITARY
ACTION.
THIS WEEK STARTING YESTERDAY
THEY HAD AN EMERGENCY MEETING
WHICH THEY MOVED UP FROM LATER
IN THE WEEK TO RECONSIDER THE
QUESTION.
BUT WHAT CAME OUT, THE FIRST
READINGS LOOKED LIKE OH THEY'RE
NOT REALLY CALLING ON THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO DO
SOMETHING.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE TEXT
AND I SPOKE TO PEOPLE BOTH IN
THE EGYPTIAN GOVERNMENT AND IN
THE ARAB LEAGUE.
THEY SAY THE IMPORTANT THING
ABOUT THE TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT
WAS, YES, WE'RE CALLING ON THE
UNITED NATIONS AND THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO TAKE
SOME SORT OF DETRNT ACTION OR
DETERRENT MEASURES AGAINST THE
USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS BY THE
REGIME BUT THE ONLY LEGAL BASIS
FOR MILITARY ACTION IS UNDER
EITHER THE U.N. CHARTER OF SELF
DEFENSE OR BY A VOTE OF THE
SECURITY COUNCIL WHICH IS ONE
EGYPTIAN OFFICIAL ADMITTED TO ME
IN A PRACTICAL SENSE THAT'S NOT
GOING OHAPPEN BECAUSE OF
RUSSIA'S OPPOSITION.
SO IT IS INTERESTING ON TWO
POINTS.
ONE, EGYPT HAS LONG BEEN AN ALLY
OF THE UNITED STATES, IS NOT
ACTING IN CERNT WITH THE U.S.
HERE, EGYPT WAS THE FIRST THAT
CAME OUT LAST WEEK AND SAID THEY
WERE OPPOSED TO THE USE OF
FORCE.
AND SECONDLY, THATTING MADAN
WASHER WHO IS THE FORMER FOREIGN
MINISTER OF JORDAN SAID TO ME
YESTERDAY, IT'S INTERESTING THAT
THE ONLY LEADERS CALLING FOR
AMBIGUOUSLY TRI ACTION ARE THE
ONES WITHOUT ELECTED
PARLAIMENTS.
THAT IS THE GOVERNMENTS HAD A
DON'T FEEL THEY HAVING TO
RESPONSIVE TO THEIR PEOPLE AND
THAT IS SOME OF THESE GULF
KINGDOMS AND WHETHER IT'S JORDAN
OR EGYPT AND OTHER STATES WHICH
DO HAVE AROUSED PUBLIC WORKS NOW
AND SINCE THE ARAB SPRING AND
EVEN MORE ACTIVIST PUBLIC THEY
ARE NOT WILLING TO GO THERE.
>>Brown: ALL RIGHT, MARGARET
WARNER IN CAIRO, THANK YOU SO
>> Brown: THERE'S MUCH MORE
ONLINE, WHERE WE CONTINUE OUR
SYRIA COVERAGE, INCLUDING, ON
OUR WORLD PAGE, A DISPATCH FROM
MARGARET IN CAIRO.
>> Brown: NEXT ON THIS LABOR
DAY, AN ENCORE REPORT ABOUT
AMERICA'S AGING WORK FORCE.
MORE THAN ONE IN THREE WORKERS
EXPECT TO BE ON THE JOB PAST AGE
65.
AND MANY MIDDLE-AGED AND OLDER
AMERICANS FACE UNEMPLOYMENT AND
TOUGH COMPETITION FOR JOBS.
BUT THE NEWSHOUR'S ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT, PAUL SOLMAN, HAS
THE STORY OF ONE COMPANY THAT'S
FOUND A BRIGHT SIDE TO HIRING
SENIOR CITIZENS.
IT'S ALL PART OF PAUL'S ONGOING
REPORTING ON MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS.
WELL, WE APOLOGIZE FOR THAT.
WE APPEAR TO BE HAVING SOME
AUIOD PROBLEMS.
WE'LL TRY TO FIX THAT AND COME
BACK TO IT AS SOON AS WE CAN.
AND NOW WE TURN TO THE LEGACY OF
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT.
RAY SUAREZ HAS THAT STORY.
>> TWO PERSPECTIVES, RUTH ROSEN
IS A PROFESSOR EMERITA, AND HOW
THE WOMAN'S MOVEMENT CHANGED
AMERICA AND GEORGE CHAUNCEY,
PROFESSOR OF HISTORY AND
AMERICAN STUDIES AT YALE
UNIVERSITY.
PROFESSOR ROS ROSEN HAS THIS HAF
CENTURY CHANGED, WHEN WE THROW
AROUND THE WORDS HUMAN RIGHTS
AND CIVIL RIGHTS?
>> ABSOLUTELY, THE MOVEMENT FOR
WOMEN RIGHTS AND CIVIL RIGHTS,
ABOLITIONIST MOVEMENT INSPIRED A
SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT, AND IN THE
20th CENTURY, FOUNDED NOW AND
WHEN YOUNGER WOMEN WHO HAD BEEN
PART OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT FOUNDED THE YOUNGER
WOMEN LIBERATION MOVEMENT, SO
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT HAVE
ABSOLUTELY INSPIRED TWICE IN OUR
HISTORY A FIGHT FOR WOMEN'S
EQUALITY.
>>Suarez: FROAFEPROFESSOR CHAUNY
SAME QUESTION.
>> WELL SPRING OF ALL GREAT
MOVEMENTS FOR SOCIAL JUSTICE IN
THE UNITED STATES.
IT CERTAINLY HAD A PROFOUND
IMPACT ON THE LESBIAN AND GAY
RIGHTS MOVEMENT, BACK IN THE
'60s WHEN THE MARCH HAPPENED,
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT REALLY
PIONEERED THE CONCEPT AS A
POWERFUL POLITICAL CONCEPT OF
MINORITY RIGHTS AND MADE IT
EASIER FOR GAYS TO BEGIN TO
DEPICT THEMSELVES AS A MINORITY
WHO DESERVE THE SAME CIVIL
RIGHTS THAT OTHER AMERICANS AND
OTHER MINORITIES DID.
AND THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT,
IMPORTANT TO THE GAY MOVEMENT
WOMEN'S MOVEMENT LATINO MOVEMENT
AND MANY OTHERS.
GIVEN MARCHES THEMSELVES, THE
MARCH ON WASHINGTON IN '63 WAS
FOLLOWED JUST TWO YEARS LATER BY
THE FIRST GAY CIVIL RIGHTS
PICKETS DWROWTS WHITE HOUSE AND
INDEPENDENCE HALL IN
PHILADELPHIA AND BY THE FIRST
NATIONAL MARCH ON WASHINGTON FOR
LESBIAN ANDGAY RIGHTS IN 1969.
>>Suarez: PROFESSOR ROSEN AT
THIS TIME, DID THIS PUT THE
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT INTO THE
FOREFRONT?
>> FOR THE PEOPLE OF PRO-CHOICE
TO WASHINGTON, BUT IF YOU
ACTUALLY LOOK AT THE WOMEN'S
MOVEMENT ITSELF, THE REAL MARCH
THAT MADE THE WOMEN'S MOVEMENT
00 HOUSEHOLD NAME TOOK PLACE IN
1970 WHEN 50,000 PEOPLE MARCHEDT
DIDN'T END THE WOMEN'S MOVEMENT
OR START IT, IT WAS IN THE
MIDDLE.
BUT WHAT HAPPENED AFTERWARDS,
THE ORGANIZATIONS, NOW, MORE
LIKE THE NAACP AND ITS
ORGANIZATIONAL STYLE AND THE
YOUNG WOMEN'S MOVEMENT,
PENETRATED ALL ORGANIZATION HE
OF THE CULTURE.
BY THE MID 1970s ALL THE
ETHNIC, RACIAL, MOVEMENT,
STRIVING TO CHANGE WOMEN'S
RIGHTS AT HOME AND AT THE
WORKPLACE.
>>Suarez: LET'S TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT THE INSIDE AND THE
OUTSIDE GAME.
THE PUBLIC SAW DEMONSTRATIONS,
THE PUBLIC SAW MARCHES BUT AT
THE SAME TIME THERE WAS AN
INSIDE GAME IN COURTS AND IN
LEGISLATURES.
FILING BRIEFS.
THIS WAS A BIG PART OF THE
SUCCESS OF ALL THESE MOVEMENTS,
WASN'T IT?
THE DUALITY OF THE STRUGGLE.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND I WOULD EMPHASIZE AGAIN,
WHAT PROFESSOR ROSEN SAID,
APPLIES TO THE GAY MOVEMENT AS
WELL.
IT WAS, NOWADAYS WE'RE ACUVMENTD
TO GAY RIGHTS BEING A --
ACCUSTOMED TO GAY RIGHTS BEING
AN ISSUE.
BUT BACK IN THE 60s AND 70s
GAYS COULD ONLY DREAM OF GETTING
THAT KIND OF NATIONAL ATTENTION.
SO ORGANIZING THOSE VERY LOCAL
AS INDEED THE MOSTLY ORGANIZING
IN THE BLACK CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT WAS.
>> AND IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT
WHAT THE GAY AND LESBIAN
MOVEMENT DID AND THE WOMEN'S
MOVEMENT DID IS WE CHANGED THE
TERMS OF DEBATE IN AMERICAN
POLITICAL CULTURE.
JUST ABOUT WOMEN, WOMEN GOT THE
RIGHT TO HAVE CREDIT CARDS IN
THEIR OWN NAMES, TO BUY.
>>> MONTH, TO BE ON JURIES IN
CERTAIN STATES -- WE GOT --
WHICH WE DIDN'T HAVE AND CUSTODY
OF CHILDREN.
AND THEN OF COURSE TITLE 9, IN
THE 1970s GAVE WOMEN THE RIGHT
TO SPORTS.
BUT THE MOST IMPORTANT TWO
THINGS THAT I WOULD MENTION IS
THE FACT THAT WOMEN ARE SAFER
TODAY BECAUSE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
HAS BEEN MADE INTO A FELONY AND
AT WORK, WOMEN KNOW THAT IF
SOMEONE PREYS UPON THEM SEXUAL
HARASSMENT IS ILLEGAL.
AND THOSE TWO THINGS ALONE,
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND SEXUAL
HARASSMENT WERE NAMES THAT WE
GAVE HIDDEN INJURIES THAT WOMEN
EXPERIENCED AND THEY REALLY
DIDN'T HAVE A WAY TO TALK ABOUT
THEM.
BY NAMING THEM WE COULD DEBATE
THEM AND AS A CULTURE WE COULD
DECIDE WHETHER WE WANT TO PASS
LEGISLATION AND WE DID.
AND AS A RESULT, I THINK THE
WOMEN' LIVES ARE A LOT BETTER.
AT WORK AND AT HOME THEY ARE
PROTECTED BY THINGS THEY DIDN'T
KNOW HOW TO DISCUSS BEFORE.
>>Suarez: ALL OF THESE MOVEMENTS
IF YOU ASKED PEOPLE WHO
PARTICIPATED IN THEM, THEY WOULD
SAY WE STILL HAVE A LONG WAY TO
GO BUT WE'LL HAVE TO REFLECT ON
HOW WE TALK ABOUT PROGRESS IN
ANOTHER CONVERSATION.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
>> Brown: NEXT ON THIS LABOR
DAY, AN ENCORE REPORT ABOUT
AMERICA'S AGING WORK FORCE.
MORE THAN ONE IN THREE WORKERS
EXPECT TO BE ON THE JOB PAST AGE
65.
AND MANY MIDDLE-AGED AND OLDER
AMERICANS FACE UNEMPLOYMENT AND
TOUGH COMPETITION FOR JOBS.
BUT THE NEWSHOUR'S ECONOMICS
CORRESPONDENT, PAUL SOLMAN, HAS
THE STORY OF ONE COMPANY THAT'S
FOUND A BRIGHT SIDE TO HIRING
SENIOR CITIZENS.
IT'S ALL PART OF PAUL'S ONGOING
REPORTING ON MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS.
>> YOU'RE DOING SOMETHING
USEFUL.
YOU'RE NOT SITTING VEGETATING.
>> AT AGE 101, ROSA FINNEGAN IS
PUNCHING IN PART TIME AT SMALL
MANUFACTURER.
FINN FAN AND THOSE LIKE HER ARE
EXTENDING THEIR USEFUL LIVES AND
THEIR RETIREMENT INCOME.
BUT MIGHT THEY ALSO BE A BOON TO
THE ECONOMY?
>> HOW MUCH DO YOU SAY?
I'M NOT ALLOWED TO SAY AM I?
YOU'RE 100 YEARS OLD, YOU
REQUEST SAY WHATEVER YOU WANT.
>> THE REASON I ASKED THIS YEAR
THE GAP TWENG U.S. SPENDING AND
TAX REVENUES IS EXPECTED TO BE
OVER $640 BILLION.
THREATENING TO WIDEN THE GAP:
32 MILLION AMERICANS REACHING
RETIREMENT AGE IN THE NEXT 20
YEARS SLATED TO DRAW ASSOCIATES
AND MECAREDI WHILE PAYING ZERO
TAXES ON INCOME.
>> SO ARE YOU SLOWING DOWN?
YES.
DEFINITELY.
AS LONG AS I DON'T COME TO A
SCREECHING HALT I'LL BE LUCKY.
>> BUT WHAT IF AMERICANS WORKED
AS LONG AS ROSA FINNEGAN WHO WE
INTERVIEWED IN DECEMBER?
ROSA IS BEING COY BUT WHATEVER
SHE IS MAKING SHE IS PAYING
TAXES, INCOME AND SOCIAL
SECURITY WHICH BY THE NEEDLE
MATCHES.
ANOTHER OLDER WORKER WE
INTERVIEWED REENLTS, 66-YEAR-OLD
STEVE BINGLEY, RUNS INFINITY
BOARDS, PAYS HIMSELF $60,000 A
YEAR.
HIS TAB, MORE THAN $18,000.
THEN MIKE WHO BECAME A BUSINESS
CONSULTANT WHO TRIED IN VEIN
GETTING A TECH JOB, FROM THE ONE
HE WAS LAID OFF OF AT AGE 65.
>> THAT WAS SO GREAT BUT AT 65
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO MAKE ANY
HEADWAY DOING THAT AND IT WAS A
MISTAKE.
LET ME GO ON A PATH THAT WILL BE
WAY MORE PRODUCTIVE.
>> WITH HIS NEW BUSINESS UP AND
RUNNING, LAST YEAR GRATOLA PAID
NEARLY $15,000 OF TAXES ON
INCOME.
FINALLY, 71-YEAR-OLD GEORGE
MASON WRITING PROFESSOR DON
GALIER.
>> IT'S THE FUFERRED YEAR I'M
HERE.
>> GALIER PAID ABOUT $35,000 IN
TAXES INCLUDING HIS UNIVERSITY
SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTION.
HE HAS NO PLANS TO RETIRE.
>> LAST SEMESTER I HAD FIVE
STUDENTS COME UP TO ME AND SAID
IT WAS THE BEST CLASS THEY HAD
EVER HAD.
SO APPARENTLY I'M STILL GOOD FOR
MY STUDENTS.
>> OVERALL, 80% OF AMERICANS 65
OR OVER ARE WORKING AND PAYING
TAXES, A FIGURE THAT DOESN'T
INCLUDE STATE INCOME TAXES.
MOREOVER, EVERY EXTRA PERCENTAGE
POINT OF THE WORKFORCE NOT
RETIRING WOULD MNEA AT LEAST
ANOTHER FEW BILLION DOLLARS IN
REVENUES TOWARD CLOSING
AMERICA'S ANNUAL BUDGET GAP.
>> IT'S GOOD FOR THE ECONOMY.
UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA ECONOMIST JULIE
ZISAMOPOUIS THINKS, OLDER
AMERICANS WORKING LONGER IS
SIMPLY GOOD.
WHY?
>> HOW ARE WE GOING TO KEEP
SOARKTS, HOW ARE WE GOING TO
KEEP RECEIVING THE BENEFITS THAT
THEY HAVE RECEIVED IN THE PAST?
IN ORDER TO FIND THESE, WE NEED
WORKERS, WE NEED PEOPLE PAYING
TAXES.
>> IT'S A PROBLEM ECONOMISTS
HAVE WORRIED ABOUT FOR DECADES.
AS THE POPULATION HAS AGED, THE
NUMBER OF WORKERS SUPPORTING
RETIREES HAS DROPPED.
A TRENT -- A TREND WE REPORTED
BACK IN 1990.
WHEN SOCIAL SECURITY BEGAN
PAYING BENEFITS THERE WERE 159
AMERICAN WORKERS BEING TAXED FOR
EVERY RETIREE.
BY THE LATE 1940S WE REPORTED 23
YEARS AGO, 42 WORKERS FOR EVERY
SOCIAL SECURITY RECIPIENT.
BY 1970, ONLY FOUR WORKERS.
AND LOOKING AT THE NUMBERS THESE
DAYS, FOR 2011, FOR EXAMPLE,
THERE WERE JUST 2.9 WORKERS FOR
EVERY BENEFICIARY.
SOCIAL SECURITY NOW PAYS OUT
MORE IN BENEFITS THAN IT
RECEIVES IN TAX REVENUE.
BUT ACCORDING TO EUGENE STURLEY
OF THE URBAN INSTITUTE IF
INSTEAD OF RETIRING MORE AND
MORE PEOPLE 65 AND OLDER
CONTINUE TO WORK, THE PICTURE
COULD CHANGE DRAMATICALLY.
RATHER THAN JUST DRAWING FROM
BENEFIT PROGRAMS, THEY'D BE
CONTRIBUTING TO THEM.
>> IT'S NOT JUST SOCIAL SECURITY
TAXES OR MEDICARE TAXES, THE
KIND OF TAXES WE MIGHT THINK OF
AS NECESSARY TO SUPPORT PROGRAMS
FOR THE ELDERLY, BUT AMONG THE
BIGGEST GAINS FOR GOVERNMENT AS
A WHOLE, I WOULD EXPECT INCOME
TAXES, HIGHER INCOME TAXES MEANS
IT'S EASIER TO SUPPORT
GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS WITHOUT
INCREASING TAX RATES.
>> STURLEY FOUND THAT THE SOCIAL
SECURITY TAXES GENERATED IF THE
AVERAGE AMERICAN RETIRED FIVE
YEARS LATER THAN NORMAL, WOULD
OVERCOME THING SHORTFALL.
IF YOU WERE TO FACTOR IN INCOME
TAX REVENUE THE SHORTFALL WOULD
BE COMPLETELY ERASED.
BOSTON COLLEGE'S ALICIA MINELL
SAYS, THERE IS MORE OF AN
ECONOMIC BENEFIT TO WORKING
LONGER.
>> YOU HAVE MORE PEOPLE OUT
THERE WORKING WITH THEIR CAPITAL
TO PRODUCE MORE STUFF SO YOU GET
A BIGGER GDP AND EVERYNEO IS
BETTER OFF.
>> NOT EVERY ECONOMIST AGREES OF
COURSE.
LARRY KOTLIKOFF THINKS THE
PLUSES ARE WORKING -- OF WORK
LONGER ARE WAY OVERBLOWN.
>> ONLY A CERTAIN PERCENTAGE OF
PEOPLE OVER 65 ARE GOING TO
WORK, REGARDLESS, TO THE
MACROECONOMY OR TO OUR FISCAL
PROBLEM IS NOT A BIG ENOUGH
EFFECT.
>> SO YOU DON'T THINK THIS IS
GOING TO MAKE THAT MUCH OF A
DIFFERENCE?
>> EVEN IF WE HAD ANOTHER 20% OF
PEOPLE IN THEIR 60s CONTINUE
TO WORK THROUGH THEIR 70s OR
75 IT JUST WOULDN'T ADD UP TO
MUCH.
IT'S JUST NOT ENOUGH PEOPLE
EARNING ENOUGH MONEY PAYING
ENOUGH TAXES TO MATTER MUCH.
>> WHAT A SURPRISE, ECONOMISTS
DISAGREE.
BUT IT'S CERTAINLY TRUE THAT
MANY WHO MIGHT WANT TO STAY IN
THE WORKFORCE SIMPLY CAN'T.
DUE TO POOR HEALTH, A STRENUOUS
JOB, THE NEED TO CARE FOR A SICK
FAMILY MEMBER.
SO WE JUST DON'T KNOW HOW MANY
WILL.
BUT, SAYS JEAN STURLEY, THE
PORTION OF OLDER PEOPLE
CONTINUING TO WORK HAS BEEN
GROWING FOR YEARS.
>> THE SOCIAL SECURITY
ADMINISTRATION HAS CONSISTENTLY
UNDERESTIMATED THE EXTENT TO
WHICH OLDER WORKERS WILL WORK
LONGER AND CONSTANTLY PUSHING UP
THAT PROJECTED, AND AS LARGER
AND LARGER SHARES OF THE
POPULATION HIT THESE OLDER AGES
SOMEONE HAS TO PRODUCE THE GOODS
AND SERVICES.
>> AND SAYS MINELL, THAT WOULD
BE A GOOD THING FOR OLDER
WORKERS.
CONSIDERING THAT 55 TO
64-YEAR-OLDS HAVE AN AVERAGE OF
ONLY $120,000 SAVED FOR
RETIREMENT.
>> $120,000 MAY SOUND LIKE A
LOT.
BUT WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT TAKING
THAT OUT OVER 20, 30 YEAR
RETIREMENT, YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
ONLY A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS PER
MONTH.
>> SO YOU MEAN IF YOU'VE SAVED
AS MUCH AS $120,000, IN YOUR
LATE 50s, YOU ARE STILL FACING
RELATIVE POVERTY?
>> PEOPLE ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE
VERY MUCH MONEY, IF THEY RETIRE
AT 64.
SO MY VIEW ASK, THE SINGLE
MOST -- IS THE SINGLE MOST
IMPORTANT THING THEY CAN DO IS
WORK AS LONG AS THEY POSSIBLY
CAN.
>> MARK FREEDMAN THE OWNER OF
ENCORE.ORG, SAYS THE PRIVILEGE
IS TO WORK FOR THEMSELVES AND
THE BROADER ECONOMY.
>> IT'S AN EXTRAORDINARY
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
HAVE ANOTHER CHANCE TO DO
SOMETHING IMPORTANT BUT REALLY
FOR A SOCIETY WHICH IS
DISCOVERING A CONTINENT OF HUMAN
RESOURCES THAT'S REALLY ONLY
COMPARABLE TO THE EMERGENCE OF
WOMEN IN THIS NEW ROLE 30, 40
YEARS AGO.
NOW WE WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO
CONTEMPLATE BEING COMPETITIVE
GLOBALLY WITHOUT THAT TALENT
POOL.
I THINK 20, 30 YEARS FROM NOW
WE'LL FEEL THE SAME WAY ABOUT
ALL THESE PEOPLE IN THEIR 60s
AND 70s WHO ARE CONTINUING TO
DO IMPORTANT WORK.
>> A NICE THOUGHT FOR THE NEARGE
STILL WORKING PAST ADDITIONAL
RETIREMENT AGE.
>> Brown: FINALLY, A SECOND LOOK
AT THE HIGH COST OF MINING FOR
PRECIOUS METALS.
A GOLD RUSH HAS BROUGHT NEW
OPPORTUNITIES TO THE DESPERATELY
POOR NATION OF BURKINA FASO IN
WEST AFRICA.
BUT ALONG WITH RICHES HAVE COME
PERILS, ESPECIALLY FOR THE YOUNG
CHILDREN WHO WORK IN THE
DANGEROUS MINES.
PHOTOJOURNALIST LARRY C. PRICE,
IN COLLABORATION WITH THE
PULITZER CENTER ON CRISIS
REPORTING, RECENTLY VISITED
SEVERAL MINING COMMUNITIES TO
DOCUMENT THE CONDITIONS.
OUR REPORT IS NARRATED BY HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THEOPHILE.
HE'S TOSSING SHARDS OF ORE INTO
A BUCKET 150 FEET BELOW GROUND.
HIS EYES ARE GLASSY AND HIS
MOVEMENTS ARE ROTE, TRAINED BY
REPETIONTI AND CIRCUMSTANCE.
DOWN IN THIS CRAMPED, HUMID
SPACE, THEOPHILE'S SMALL BODY
MOVES ABOUT MORE FREELY THAN AN
ADULT'S WOULD.
>> I THOUGHT I WAS NEAR THE
BOTTOM, AND THEN I REALIZED
THERE'S ANOTHER 40 OR 50 FEET TO
GO.
>> Reporter: A FACT
PHOTOJOURNALIST LARRY PRICE
FOUND OUT FOR HIMSELF AS HE
DESCENDED T SHAHEFT TO MEET THE
BOY.
>> THIS HAS REALLY, REALLY BEEN
HARD TO GET DOWN THIS FAR.
THIS SHAFT IS ABOUT FOUR TO FIVE
FEET IN DIAMETER, AND AT ITS
NARROWEST, IT'S PROBABLY LESS
THAN 28 INCHES.
AND AS YOU CAN SEE, THERE'S NOT
TOO MUCH IN THE WAY OF
FOOTHOLDS, SO IEALL RY HAD TO
SORT OF JUST INCH MY WAY DOWN.
>> Reporter: ABOVE GROUND IS THE
SMALL MINING VILLAGE OF KOLLO,
ONE OF THE MANY BOOMTOWNS THAT'S
SPRUNG UP OVER THE LAST FEW
YEARS IN BURKINA FASO.
SLIGHTLY LARGER THAN COLORADO IN
ACREAGE-- AND AMONG THE POOREST
COUNTRIES IN THE WORLD-- THIS
LANDLOCKED NATION OF 18 MILLION
PEOPLE IS A RELATIVE NEWCOMER TO
THE GOLD TRADE.
BUT THE PRECIOUS METAL-- USED IN
EVERYTHING FROM JEWELRY TO
ELECTRONICS TO THE BASIS OF
CURRENCIES THE WORLD OVER-- HAS
IN SHORT ORDER OVERTAKEN COTTON
TO BECOME THE COUNTRY'S TOP
EXPORT COMMODITY.
A SIZABLE CHUNK OF THAT GOLD
COMES FROM SMALL-SCALE, OR
ARTISANAL, MINES, LIKE THESE.
AND MUCH OF THAT WORK IS DONE BY
CHILDREN.
THE U.N.'S INTERNATIONAL LABOR
ORGANIZATION ESTIMATES THAT
CHILDREN ACCOUNT FOR 30% TO 50%
OF THE SMALL-SCALE MINERS
WORKING IN THE AFRICAN SAHEL
REGION, WHICH INCLUDES BURKINA
FASO AND NIGER.
BUT THE ISSUE IS NOT RESTRICTED
TO THE CONTINENT.
>> IT'S A SIGNIFICANT PROBLEM
AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Reporter: ERIC BIEL IS ACTING
ASSOCIATE DEPUTY UNDERSECRETARY
FOR INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS OF THE
U.S. LABOR DEPARTMENT, WHICH
TRACKS CHILD LABOR VIOLATIONS
ACROSS THE GLOBE.
ITS LATEST REPORT LISTS BURKINA
FASO AMONG 19 COUNTRIES ENGAGED
IN THE WORST FORMS OF CHILD
LABOR, AND BIEL SAYS THE MINES
THERE PRESENT CONSIDERABLE
CHALLENGES.
>> IT'S A MULTI-FACETED
SITUATION.
YOU'VE GOT CROSS-BORDER FLOWS,
YOU'VE GOT THESE BOOM TOWNS THAT
ARE BEING SET UP WHERE BOTH
CHILDREN FROM BURKINA FASO ARE
LEAVING SCHOOL AND BEING
EMPLOYED THERE, BUT ALSO
CHILDREN ARE BEING TRAFFICKED
ACROSS BORDERS.
>> Reporter: IT'S ILLEGAL TO
EMPLOY CHILDREN UNDER THE AGE OF
16 IN BURKINA FASO, AND BIEL
SAYS ITS GOVERNMENT HAS SHOWN IT
WANTS TO STOP THE PRACTICE.
BUT WITH AN ESTIMATED 200,000
ARTISANAL MINERS WORKING AT SOME
200 SITES, MANY IN REMOTE AREAS
LIKE THESE-- AND WITH A STRONG
ECONOMIC PULL-- ENFORCEMENT HAS
BEEN DIFFICULT.
THE AVERAGE WORKER IN BURKINA
FASO EARNS LESS THAN $2 A DAY.
MEANWHILE A FAMILY EMPLOYED IN
ARTISANAL MINING CAN EARN
BETWEEN $5 AND $40 A DAY,
DEPENDING ON THE MINE.
TTHAN FROM
SCHOOL TO HELP IN THE MINES.
>> THEY SAY IF GOLD IS FOUND
SOMEWHERE, IT'S HARD TO CALM THE
ARDOR OF THE GOLD DIGGERS.
>> Reporter: GANNO DAOUDA IS THE
GENERAL SECRETARY TO THE MAYOR'S
OFFICE IN THE NEARBY TOWN OF
TIEBIELE.
SINCE 2011, HE SAYS HE'S WATCHED
THE KOLLO MINE STEADILY GROW TO
EMPLOY AROUND 1,000 PEOPLE.
BUT WITH THIS NEW ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY, HE SAYS THERE HAVE
COME MANY PROBLEMS.
>> THE KIDS PREFER QUICK CASH,
PUTTING ASIDE THEIR FUTURE.
IT IS A SERIOUS PROBLEM FOR US,
BECAUSE CHILDREN ARE ALWAYS ON
THE SITE.
>> Reporter: KARIM SAWADOGO WAS
ONCE A GOAT HERDER AT HIS HOME
IN THE NORTH, AND CAME TO THIS
MINE IN THE SOUTHWEST WITH HIS
UNCLE.
BAREFOOT, HE COOKS, FETCHES,
WATER AND CLIMBS DOWN IN THE
MINES.
HE THINKS HE'S NINE YEARS OLD,
BUT ISN'T SURE.
IN GENERAL, YOUNG CHILDREN LIKE
HIM CARRY OUT THE MORE MENIAL
TASKS AT THE SITES, TRANSPORTING
WATER AND HEAVY LOADS OF ORE,
DIGGING PITS, AND BREAKING UP
ROCKS WITH PRIMITIVE HAMMERS.
THE JOBS DOWN IN THE PITS ARE
TYPICALLY RESERVED FOR
TEENAGERS.
WITH ONLY TREE LIMBS TO BRACE
THE MINE WALLS, THE RISK TO THEM
IS REAL.
>> THE SITE DOES NOT RESPECT ANY
RULE.
OFTENTIMES THERE ARE DEADLY
COLLAPSES.
>> Reporter: THE UNREGULATED
NATURE OF THIS WORK MAKES
RELIABLE STATISTICS HARD TO COME
BY.
BUT AS UNCERTAIN AS THE PITS
ARE, THE JOBS IN THE PROCESSING
AREAS, WRE THEHE ORE IS
PULVERIZED, ARE POSSIBLY MORE
DANGEROUS.
SPUTTERING DIESEL ENGINES POWER
MAKESHIFT PULLEYS, GRINDING
PLATES AND BELTS USED TO CRUSH
THE ORE INTO A FINE POWDER
THAT'S BAGGED TO BE TREATED
LATER.
ALONG WITH THE HAZARDS OF
BREATHING THIS FINE DUST COMES
THE POTENTIAL FOR LOSING A
FINGER OR LIMB.
CHILDREN ALSO HELP PAN THE
POWDER WITH LIQUID MERCURY,
WHICH BINDS TO GOLD.
THIS AMALGAM IN TURN IS BURNED
TO SEPARATE THE GOLD, RELEASING
DANGEROUS VAPORS.
>> IT'S A GAMBLE.
PEOPLE ARE TRADING OFF THE MONEY
THEY MAKE NOW SELLING GOLD WITH
POTENTIALLY THEIR HEALTH AND
THEIR LIVES.
>> Reporter: JOE AMON DIRECTS
THE HEALTH AND HUMAN RIGHTS
PROGRAM AT HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH,
WHICH RECENTLY STUDIED THIS SAME
ISSUE IN NEIGHBORING MALI.
>> CHILDREN SOMETIMES HAVE
EXPOSURE TO BOTH DIRECTLY TO
TOUCHING THE MERCURY, AND THEN
ALSO TO THE VAPORS.
AND THAT CAN BE IF THEY'RE
WORKING ON THE GOLD ITSELF, OR
IF THEY'RE SIMPLY AROUND THE
FAMILY COMPOUND WHERE THE GOLD
IS BEING ISOLATED WITH THE
MERCURY, OR IF THEY'RE STRAPPED
ON TO THEIR MOTHER'S BACK WHILE
SHE'S WORKING ON MERCURY.
>> Reporter: AMON SAYS THE
EFFECTS OF MEURY RCPOISONING ARE
BOTH DIFFICULT TO DIAGNOSE AND
VERY SERIOUS.
THEY INCLUDE NEUROLOGICAL
DAMAGE, IMPAIRED VISION,
RESPIRATORY CONDITIONS, KIDNEY
FAILURE, LONG-TERM MENTAL
DISABILITIES, AND EVEN DEATH.
MEANWHILE, THE CONSTANT DUST
AROUND THE MINES CAN SETTLE
INSIDE THE LUNGS OF THESE
CHILDREN, CAUSING PERMANENT
DAMAGE.
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF HEALTH-
RELATED PROBLEMS.
OUR NURSES HERE ARE OVERWHELMED
BY CASES OF LUNG DISEASE CAUSED
BY DUST, AS THESE PEOPLE DO NOT
HAVE GOOD PROTECTION.
>> Reporter: WATER IS SCARCE IN
THE DROUGHT-STRICKEN COUNTRY,
ESPECIALLY IN RURAL AREAS, SO
CHILDREN USE THE CONTAMINATED
COOLING WATER FROM THE MACHINERY
TO WASH THEIR FACES AND BRUSH
THEIR TEETH.
AFTER 12- TO 14-HOUR SHIFTS,
THEY TRY TO SLEEP NEAR THE
DEAFENING ROAR OF NEARBY
MACHINES OR OVER AN OPEN MINE
PIT.
IT'S A RARE OCCASION-- PERHAPS A
GAME OF FOOSBALL-- WHEN THEY ACT
LIKE THE CHILDREN THEY ARE.
>> WELL, WE CAN'T, AS THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT, SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
MINING WASN'T ALWAYS SO POPULAR
IN BURKINA FASO.
IN 1985 THE COUNTRY SUFFERED A
PROLONGED DROUGHT, AND THE
RESULTING FAMINE PUSHED MANY
FAMILIES OFF THEI SUBRSISTENCE
FARMS AND DOWN INTO THE MINES
FOR WORK.
GOLD FETCHED $300 AN OUNCE IN
1985.
TODAY IT IS MORE THAN $1,200 AN
OUNCE, FUELING SUCH RUDIMENTARY
FORMS OF MINING IN BURKINA FASO
AND ELSEWHERE.
WHILE IT'S CLEAR THERE'S GOLD
LEAVING THESE BOOMTOWNS, IT IS
MUCH HARDER TO SAY WHERE THE
GOLD MAY ULTIMATELY END UP.
BURKINA FASO'S POROUS BORDERS
AND LARGE NETWORK OF MIDDLE MEN
MEAN A NUGGET FROM THESE MINES
CAN BE EASILY COMBINED WITH
OTHER SOURCES.
THE U.S. LABOR DEPARTMENT SAYS
THIS MAKES TRACING AND STOPPING
THE TRADE OF CHILD-MINED GOLD
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT.
>> IT'S NOT SOMETHING WHERE IT'S
AS EASYO SA TY, WELL, IF WE STOP
THE DEMAND FOR GOLD, WE CAN
TRACE THAT BACK TO WHAT'S
HAPPENING ON THE GROUND IN
BURKINA FASO.
SO THIS IS ONE WHERE WE REALLY
HAVE TO START WITH THE SUPPLY,
WITH THE CIRCUMSTANCE ON THE
GROUND, AND TRY TO GET AT, AS I
MENTIONED, THE ROOT CAUSES.
>> Reporter: TO THAT END, IN
DECEMBER THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR ANNOUNCED A $5 MILLION
GRANT OVER FOUR YEARS TO COMBAT
CHILD LABOR IN BURKINA FASO.
>> WELL, WE CAN'T, AS THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT, SOLVE THE PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: BIEL ADMITS THAT
RELATIVELY MINOR SUM WON'T END
THE PRACTICE, BUT HE SAYS IT'S
PART OF A BROADER EFFORT.
>> SO THERE'S NO ABILITY THROUGH
ONE GRANT, WHETHER IT'S $5
MILLION OR SOMETHING ELSE, TO
ADDRESS THE WHOLE PROBLEM.
BUT YOU CAN BEGIN TO GET AT SOME
OF THE ROOT CAUSES AND-- THROUGH
AWARENESS RAISING AND SO FORTH--
HOPEFULLY BEGIN TO MAKE A
DIFFERENCE.
SO IT'S NOT GOING TO DISAPPEAR
OVERNIGHT.
>> Reporter: JOE AMON, OF HUMAN
RIGHTS WATCH, AGREES, AND SAYS
EDUCATION CAN GO A LONG WAY
TOWARDS LIMITING CHILDREN'S
EXPOSURE TO THE WORST RISKS.
>> WELL, MANY OF THE FAMILIES
THAT WE TALKED TO HAD NEVER
HEARD THAT MERCURY WAS THE
PROBLEM, THAT IT HAD ANY IMPACT
AT ALL.
AND SO, AT THE VERY FUNDAMENTAL
LEVEL, THERE NEEDS TO BE SOME
EDUCATION THAT'S DONE.
>> Reporter: BACK AT THIS MINING
CAMP IN THE SOUTHWEST, AN
INTERPRETER ASKS KARIM SAWADOGO
WHAT HE WANTS TO DO WITH HIS
LIFE.
KARIM SAYS HE CAME HERE TO MAKE
MONEY, AND THAT HIS DREAM IS TO
MAKE ENOUGH SO THAT HE NEVER HAS
TO GO DOWN INTO THE NARROW MINES
AGAIN.
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
RATCHETED UP ITS CAMPAIGN,
PRESSING U.S. LAWMAKERS TO BACK
A MILITARY STRIKE AGAINST SYRIA.
THE TOP NUCLEAR REGULATOR IN
JAPAN RAISED CONCERNS OVER NEW
LEAKS AT THE DAMAGED FUKUSHIMA
POWER PLANT.
AND AMERICAN DIANA NYAD BECAME
THE FIRST PERSON TO SWIM FROM
CUBA TO FLORIDA WITHOUT A SHARK
CAGE.
SHE MADE IT ON HER FIFTH TRY, AT
THE AGE OF 64.
ONLINE WE TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT
DIANA NYAD'S HISTORIC SWIM AND
PAST ATTEMPTS.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Holman: GET MORE VIDEO OF
NYAD REACHING SHORE, PLUS A 2012
INTERVIEW WITH HER ABOUT A
DIFFICULT PREVIOUS ATTEMPT, AND
A LOOK AT THE JELLYFISH WHO
THWARTED HER BEFORE.
CAN YOU TRUST SOCIAL SECURITY'S
ESTIMATE OF YOUR BENEFITS?
EXPERT LARRY KOTLIKOFF
WRITES ABOUT WHY YOU MIGHT
RECEIVE DIFFERENT ESTIMATES OF
YOUR BENEFITS DEPENDING ON WHAT
URCE YOU USE.
FIND THAT ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
FIRST CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS ON
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PLAN FOR A
MILITARY STRIKE ON SYRIA.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONNE, LIAND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.